FRUIT CAKE
Ingredients
1 1/2 cups plain/all purpose flour (180gm)
1/2 cup powdered almonds (60 gm) - you can also use half a cup of flour in place of the powdered almonds
170gm butter or margarine, (or a combination of the two) softened (approx 3/4 cup)
1/2 cup sugar, grinded to a powder (100gm) - you can increase an extra quarter cup (50gm) for a sweeter cake
4eggs at room temperature
1 cup dried fruits and candied peel (if you are not using candied peel, add the zest of 1 lemon)
1/2 cup chopped cherries (I used a combination of red and green)
2 tsp. vanilla essence
1 1/2 tsp. baking powder
1/4 cup milk (50ml)
1/4 tsp. salt
almond flakes for decorating the top
Instructions 
Tip:
Make sure all the ingredients are at room temperature before you begin.
Preheat oven at 170C. Grease the line of the loaf pan, then dust it with flour. Recommended size is a 9x5x3 inch pan.
Remove 1 tbsp. from the flour and sprinkle it over the dried fruits and mix. This will help ensure that they do not sink to the bottom of the back during baking. Set aside.
Add the vanilla essence in the milk. Set aside.
Sieve/sift the rest of the flour with the baking powder and salt. Then add the powdered almonds and still well. Set aside.

Beat the butter/margarine with the powdered sugar in a big bowl until light and fluffy. Be sure to beat them well because this cake requires very little baking powder so this stage is crucial in ensuring you have a light and fluffy cake.
Once the butter and sugar are light and creamy, add the eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition and scraping down the sides of the bowl occasionally. The mixture will appear curdled but do not worry about that, it will smoothen out when the flour is added later.
Add the flour and milk/vanilla in three installments, combining gently between each addition, starting with the flour, then the milk and ending with the flour again. Make sure not to over mix the batter at this stage.
Finally add the dried fruits and chopped cherries and gently stir them in with a spatula. Pour this batter into your prepared loaf pan. Sprinkle the almond flakes over the cake and then bake in the preheated oven at 170C for about 45 minutes to an hour or until skewer inserted into the cake comes out clean. During baking, if you find that the top is colouring too quickly you can cover the cake lightly with a piece of foil midway through baking.
Place the loaf pan on a wire to coll slightly and then turn the cake out of the pan and allow it to cool completeley before slicing. The loaf will keep well in an airtight container for up to 3 days, and longer if refrigerated.
Enjoy! :)

LEMON CAKE

Ingredients
1 1/2 cups flour (180gm)
1/2 cup butter/margarine (112gm)
3/4 cup sugar, grinded (150gm)
2 large eggs (use 3 if you have small eggs)
juice of 1 lemon (about 3-4 tbsp. FRESHLY SQUEEZED)
1/2 tsp.vanilla essence
zest of half a lemon (about 1 tsp.)
1/2 cup milk (100ml)
2 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp. salt

Instructions 
Tip:
Make sure ALL the ingredients are at room temperature before you start.
Grind the sugar to a powder and set aside.
Sift the flour twice with the salt and baking powder.
Grease and line an 8" round pan and set aside. Preheat oven to 170 C.
Beat the butter with the sugar until light and creamy. Then add the eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition.
Now add the freshly squeezed lemon into the milk and stir. The milk will thicken slightly on adding the lemon, that's ok.
Add a third of the flour and beat until combined, then add half the milk. Don't panic if it looks curdled, it will be fine. Again beat the batter until milk is mixed in. Add another third of the flour, mix it in, and then add the remaining milk. Finally add the last of the flour, the zest and the vanilla essence. Beat just until everything is well combined. Do NOT over-mix at this point, you can even finish up the mixing with a wooden spoon or spatula. The batter will be very light and fluffy.
Pour into prepared pan. Bake for 25-30 minutes, or until a toothpick stuck in the center comes out clean.
Remove from pan and let it cool completely before frosting/slicing.
Tip:
For a simple lemon glaze, take 1 cup icing sugar, add a few drops of lemon juice (freshly squeezed) and add them in, keep mixing until the glaze is of pourable consistency. You can add a few tbsp of warm water as well for a less intense lemony flavour. Pour on the cake and allow to set.

Enjoy! :)


APPLE CAKE

Ingredients for Topping
2medium apples (peeled, cored and chopped into chunks)
1 tsp. cinnamon
3 tbsp. sugar
Ingredients for Cake
1 1/2 cups flour
1 1/2 tsp. baking powder
1/2 tsp. salt
1/2 cup vegetable oil
1 cup sugar
2 tbsp. orange juice
1 tsp. vanilla essence
2 eggs, lightly beaten with a fork
1/2 cup walnuts, chopped (optional)
Instructions 
Tip:
If you want, you can use melted butter instead of oil, or better yet, mix quarter cup melted butter and quarter cup oil to get a nice buttery flavor as well as the ideal moist texture for your cake.
Preheat your oven to 170 C degrees. Grease the pan and dust it with flour.
Sift the flour in a large bowl, then add baking powder and salt. In a separate bowl, whisk together oil, orange juice, sugar and vanilla. Mix wet ingredients into the dry ones, then add eggs, one at a time. Mix with a wooden spoon or spatula, making sure to scrape down the sides of the bowl to ensure all ingredients are incorporated.
Pour the batter into prepared pan. Spread the apple chunks over it and push them in lightly so they stick into the batter (don't worry if the apples released some liquid, just add it all on the cake batter with the chunks, it will help caramelize the topping). Bake for about 1 hour, or until a tester comes out clean.
Enjoy! :)
